Haven't you ever wanted to automate repetitive tasks but given
up because you didn't know how to code?
Of course, these days, there are
AI coding helpers like Chachi Pitt and Claude Lum, but
if you still lack coding knowledge, it can
feel difficult to automate tasks because it's difficult to maintain the code generated by AI. When
I was a freshman in society, I
wanted to learn Python and automate tasks, but I gave up after learning only Python grammar.
However,
if you learn the Nokoru tool Make that I'm introducing today, you can easily automate these tasks without complicated coding.
Today, I'm going
to explain the basic concepts of Make so that even beginners who don't know anything about Make can use Make. I'm going to create a process that actually
uses Make to write an AI outbound email and
uses the body of the email to send an email. I'll
always attach helpful materials to the video explanations, so
I think it would be good to refer to them. Let's get started right away.
First, if you go to the Make.com site,
you can create a new account by clicking Get Started 3.
Here, if
you're using a Google account, you can easily create an account with your Google account.  You
can sell it at the membership price, and since I already have an
account, I'll
log in and show you.
If you log in, you
can see the overall usage status like this.
What we need to do is, there's a
tab called Scenario.
Each scenario means a
business automation process that we're creating.
If you want to create a new scenario, select Create a new at the top right.
Then, you
'll enter the work environment where you can build a new business automation process. Before we
actually practice here, I'll explain the
basic concepts that beginners need to know when using Make. Once
we enter the work environment, the first thing we need to do is
name it and
save it. If you
look at the top left, you'll see New Scenario. You
can change the name here. In this way,
we'll enter the name of the practice, which is Create Outbound Email.
If you want to save this, there's a save icon below here.
Click on it to
save it. We learned how to change and save the name like this. The
plus button here is a
button that allows you to set up modules. This
module
is a function that allows you to connect each service.
So  Here,
more than 1,000 compatible services are
provided now. For example, you
can add Google Sheets like this. If you
add a module like this, there is a
connection. So, you
can link your account that uses the service in this connection.
For example, if we select Google Sheets and
link my account, we can
take the data from my account in the sheet and
automate it.
Then, if
we want to receive data from the sheet and send it to Notion, the
second time, you
can select Notion again like this. Then, you
have to connect to Notion.
Then, I
connect to the account that I want to automate and run it.
Now, I set the path for the data to move step by step. If I
map each data, it
is a service that allows you to create an automation process that collects and processes data from various services and ultimately sends the desired data to the desired location.
If you do this work not with Make but
with coding, you have to be familiar with coding syntax, but you also have to know how to
freely utilize the APIs of various services.
Here,
knowing APIs is like a
rule or manual that helps communication between services.  You
can think of it as a service that helps with communication of apps using APIs while managing them visually by adding modules like this without making any coding. So,
even if you just link these three, you
can get the same effect as if we had already coded using the APIs of each service. That's
why you can easily automate tasks without coding.
In addition to these modules, there are various tools that help you create more detailed automation
processes. If you
look at the icon below, you can see something called flow control.
Flow control
is a tool that helps you control more detailed data flow in the order of modules. A repeater is a
tool that allows you to repeat the cycle multiple times. An
iterator or aggregator is a
tool that can merge or split data. A router is a tool that allows you to
divide and execute various modules according to conditions.
And a directory
is a tool that allows you to set how to handle errors when they occur. The second function is called s, which is
used when you want to process data in various formats or store variables.  Tool and lastly,
text parser
is a tool that can be used when we have some text data and want to extract only the data in the desired format.
In addition, if we look at the main functions, if you
click on the one that says every 15 minutes, this is
where you can set the trigger cycle.
Next, once you have finished setting up the module, you
may want to test it first. In that case, there
is a button that allows you to set the R manuscript request function to continuously run the work automation process. Finally, once the
process setup is complete, you
can turn this on to actually run the automation process.
And if the module is not set up right now, it
appears in red. When
we actually run the automation process, a
number will appear here. It
may be 1 or a white circle, and it
may be 2. The
number displayed is an
operation.
You can think of it as a work unit. So we
add it up based on the work unit and calculate
how many operations were consumed per month, and
now the cost is  I
think you can see that it is set.
First,
since you can use it for free at the practice level, I think it would be
good to test it together without any cost burden. Okay, I
think this basic explanation of Make is enough.
Now, let's automate the process of
automatically writing and sending outbound emails using Make.
Before we actually create it with Make, we're going to
organize how to build the process and
start. We're going to divide the
automation process of sending outbound emails
into two steps.
First, we're going to
create a process that writes a draft of an email.
First, we're going to retrieve information that will help us write emails from the sheet.
Based on the retrieved information, we're going to
ask you to write a BT template email.
And once the email is
written, instead of sending it as an email right away, we're
going to send the draft email back to the sheet. Then, a
person
may want to check the email and make corrections. No matter
how well AI writes emails, there are
many cases where a person needs to make corrections depending on the situation. So, we're going to configure it so that you can check the draft in the sheet,
make corrections, and finally,
when the email you want to send is complete, you
can check the button.  I'm
going to see. Then,
when the button is checked, I'm going to try to automate the process of retrieving the
information of the completed row and
sending it to Gmail.
When the Gmail transmission is completed, I want to be able to see at a
glance whether the email was properly sent on the sheet.
So, let's create an automation process by dividing it into two steps in the form of
updating the sheet again whether the transfer was completed.
Now,
let's build a process to write an email draft according to this flow. The
first thing to do to write an email draft is to retrieve the sheet containing the new row information.
So, you need to
configure the sheet first.
So, I've created a sheet like this as an example.
In this exercise, I'll assume that I'm the
owner of a ramen restaurant called Mr. Gu Ramen. Let's
assume that I want to automate the process of limiting marketing by contacting various influencers to promote this ramen. In that case, I
'll have to enter the creators' emails, and then I'll organize the influencer's channel
name and platform channel link
information.
Based on that information, I'll write the subject and body of the email.
And there, I'll edit the
information that I want to edit.  If there is,
modify it and then check the checkbox for mail check.
Then, check it. Then, we will create a process that can send the mail.
When the mail is sent, mark it as Yes in the mail send.
So, as an example, I
filled in one row first. Then, we need to create a module to check if
it can be loaded properly by entering the Make.
Select the sheet module.
Then,
select the option called Watch New Rose and set an action to monitor when a new row is added. If you have
not connected an account at first,
you can connect your account with Sign with Google.
Once connected, you can find the sheet I created by starting
with the sheet ID.
This is how I created the outbound mail
automation line sheet. In it,
select the worksheet for outbound. There is a
header designation.
We use A1 ES H1.
Since it is the first action anyway, you
can use the default value that is set. Now, the limit is important.
What is the limit? Once we set the trigger and it is
executed, we want to get a certain number of
new rows.  This
is an option to decide whether to perform the task. For example, if
we added a new row before the new trigger, if we
set it to 2, only two of them will be
retrieved and worked on first.
And then two more will be
worked on later in the next trigger. The
reason for setting a limit like this is that when we add a new row and
work on the sheet, the
information may not be complete.
So if we added ten, the ninth and
tenth rows have
been added, but the complete information has not been entered yet, and
additional modifications may be made.
So
if you want to divide the work into steps and work on it, you can
set the limit appropriately like this.
We will first
set it to the default value of 2 and test it.
Do this. Now, we will
first set where to detect the new row. Let's
just set it to All.
After doing this,
since we added one row, we want to test whether it is loaded properly.
When testing, you can press R once to
run all the modules, but later, if there are
multiple modules,  When it's added, you may want to
test the modules individually. In
that case,
right-click on the module and
select Run this module.
Then, the
output will be included in what the bundle knows and printed. Here, you
can see that you can load all the values, including the email influencer platform channel link and the row number. This
means that it's set up properly. Now,
based on this sheet data, we
will proceed with the task of writing an email using the chat pit. Then,
click the plus button on the right here and
select the chat PT this time.
If you search for the chat PT like this, you can select it. Select it and
use the create command here. This time, you need to
connect the chat PT first.
However,
if you haven't connected it yet,
click this icon. You can set the connection name as you want. The
important thing is that you need to
enter this API key. The
API key is here. If you click the link and
go in, you need to issue an API key on the website first.
If you haven't used the chat PT yet,
start a business.  You have to give it to me. If you are using it,
you can log in first. After
logging in, there
is an option called API key. There, create
new secret key,
give it a name, and click on the secret key.
For example, I will
create one for testing. The secret
key will appear like this. Then, copy this, save it
somewhere else, and
use it as is. If you
press Done, you will
no longer be able to see this API key. So, please copy it well and
paste it. After pressing Done,
go here and copy and paste the API key. After doing
that, you can save it. It is
important to enter the API key here, but you also have to set it additionally. To
actually use it,
go to Settings,
go to Billing, and add a credit balance.
So,
add a card in the payment method. You
have to purchase the credit first. Then, you can use the latest Fit API. So, I
think it would be good to make a payment and test it. So, if you
set it like that, the connection will be completed like this.
Now, when connected, you
can select the method Chat Completion, and the model will
just use the GPT 4o system.
Next, you
can add a message. When adding a message, you
can select a role.
We will use both the system and the user
roles. The
difference between the two is that the system
provides a prompt that guides you before asking a real question.
So,
when you answer, it provides a guide to answer in this way.
Secondly, we will
leave an additional user prompt by sending an ad message. The
user prompt is the prompt that we actually
use when we use Chat PT. You
can think of it as that prompt.
This
will be the content that requests you to write an email.
In the system, we will insert a phrase that
provides guidance on how to write an email.
I have written an example of the prompt in advance.
I will attach it to the video description, but you
don't have to do it exactly like this. You can change it to the form you want and
test it.
As for the system prompt, as I
mentioned, it
is called Si Ramen.  I
want to promote my brand, and I gave them a guide to write a friendly yet
professional email to the influencer and limit collaboration.
And the guideline is
divided into 1, 2, 3, and 4, and I presented four types of
guides. First, I
started with the word title and
wrote the email title. Then, I
wrote the body. Then, I set the content that should be included in the body.
Finally, I
set it to write the signature information at the end of the email. After setting it like this, I will
write the user prompt in Message 2.
Now, I will ask them to write the actual email.
So I asked them to write the email. I asked them to
explain the advantages
and told them that the influencer's content
would be a good fit for our product.
Then,
when sending the email, it would be good to refer to the influencer's channel name and channel
link.
So I will name the influencer and give them a name. But the
names will be different for each row imported from this sheet.
So when I enter the message value here, I
can select the value like this.
Then, for the column values like this.  If you
hover your mouse over it like this, you
can see that this module on the left is throbbing. This
means that it is getting the value of the module now. So
the name here is Influencer Citizen Individual
9 o'clock. If you can get the value, that
will be the name. Next, you
will specify the platform for the channel you are running. It will be running a YouTube channel.
Next, the channel link. The channel link
value is here. The channel link
is as follows. So you can set it to write an email with reference to this.
Then, you can set a different prompt by using the value we brought in from the sheet
each time.
So
set it like this. Max tokens are
how many tokens you want to use at a time when writing an email. You
can control the amount of email. We will just
set it to a generous 4,000.
I set it like this.
After the email is written like this, the
content of the email needs to be updated in the subject draft in this sheet.
Before updating, let's
test it again to
see if the email is written properly. Then, press Once and
run the process once.
Yes, it was executed like this, and if you
look at the message in the choice circle
here, the content is like this, and the email was written
like this, reflecting our direction well, and
then we should be able to send the data to the sheet, so
let's create a module that updates the sheet. Now, you can select Google Sheet again, and
this time, we'll
update the data in the existing row,
so
let's select Update Row. Likewise,
you can select the sheet that we want to update, and after
selecting it, you need to
specify which row you want to update.
There's a row number here, and you can specify the row number.
And there's a table header, and the
header is displayed properly.
What kind of information do you want to update here?
You only want to update the subject, so here,
in the Chaeji BT a data, you'll update the subject draft
mas, so let's
set the draft first. You can
specify the Open AI, but the
problem is, if you look here, the message
now has both the title and the body, and
what we want to do is...
If there is, I
want to get only the main text content, excluding the value.
And in the title, I want to get
only the actual title, excluding the title value.
So you have to do that. For that,
select this and use the formula.
Here, you
can get answers from the services in the asterisk, and
we can use various functions. Among them,
we are going to
use the string and index OO among the text-related functions. If you
use a string, you can
cut and get only a certain part from the content message. We will
use the index OO to decide where to cut and get from the message. The index OO is the
first number value of the index where the main text is inserted.
Then, this value will be imported into the content.
But in that case, the values after that
will be included.
So, one, two, three. There is a asterisk here, but this
asterisk
may not always be included.
So for now,
let's add one or three. Then, add a
plus to the index imported into the main text.  You ca
n't enter text directly, so you
have to select it in the math function here. Let's select it and set it as plus 3. I
created a formula like this. If I explain it,
this is the content created by Choi Chi PT, and I
want to get only a part of that content, so I get the index value
of the value of the body  through the index of.
And
this is now three letters, , so I
added 3. So I
made it in a format that only cuts and gets the content after this body . I
'll test it like this.
Now, in order to find a new value again, I
'll set it to OL and run it from the beginning.
Then, you
can actually check how it's created in the body column of the sheet.
As you can see, it looks like this. The
email content looks like this. It looks like only the body content is
cut and comes out well. Then,
you can set the subject the same way.
You can set it the same way.
How are you going to create this subject n?
This time, I'm going to use a string, so it
's a little more complicated.
Because I'm going to bring it from the title  and the
body.  You can't bring it again,
so this time you have to specify both the beginning and the end.
Earlier, the main text, 3, of the main text, 3, is
just bringing the content after that, so
when using the string, you only specified the starting point,
but this time, you have to set when you want to end it. I
'll explain this after I create it. I set it like this. If you
look here, the message says to
bring the title 3, which is the starting and ending point, plus 3, from there, and
bring from after the title 3, and the
end includes the main text, which
means to end it in front of that.
So I set it like this. If you
look here, there's a
space here. So if there
's a space at the beginning and the end, I'll wrap it with a formula that removes it.
This is the trim
formula. If you wrap it with this, if there's a
space at the beginning and the end of the sentence,
it will be removed. So you can set it like this.
So if you
use this formula,  It
may seem a bit burdensome at first, but this is
not that different from setting up a formula on a sheet. So,
when you use it like this,
there are various formulas. If you select this, an
explanation of how to use it will
appear. If you ask the chat room or
something, you can learn how to use it. I
think it would be good to refer to it and write it like this. And here,
there is an AI function. I think you can ask the AI function about
formulas. So, I
set it like this. Then, let's set it again and run it from the beginning. The
title and body are well-
picked, but
there are cases where there are two asterisks. I'll
ask the prompt to remove this. I'll
specify it like this and
upload it again.
Then, you can see that the title and
body are properly generated.
So far, we've built a
process to automate the task of writing emails.
So now, the
email draft has been created like this.
Of course, there may be things we want to modify here.
So,
we'll modify it in the form we want and
then
check the mail.  Let's make it a box.
Then, when this is checked,
when this is checked in Make,
we want to set up the automation task that actually sends the email to the email.
Then, in the case of the process of writing the email, this watch new
rose,
if you click on the clock-shaped trigger, it is set to check every 15 minutes. The
fastest time is 15 minutes.
And
instead of this interval, you can run it every day or
every week. For
now, let
's set it to 15 minutes.
Then, the second step is to
create a new scenario.
So this time, let's
create another new scenario.
This time, let's
create a scenario called outbound email sending.
And this time, what we need to do in the sheet is
to check if the value of a specific cell has changed. So
instead of watch new rose, it's
already created.
Let's use watch change, which can monitor if a specific value changes. Then, a
button
will pop up to create a web page. When a specific part of the row
changes, it will be detected.  So, to
bring it into Make, you
have to use this webtoon. Webf can,
to put it simply, is
a kind of mailbox-like thing on the internet.
So, when we
receive a new email, a mailbox is a
place where we can receive it. So, for
webtoons, we create a URL, and
that URL address
acts like a mailbox. If someone
sends information there, it
acts as an address that can receive it. So, if you
click on Create Web, Mail
Complete will create a webf.
Then, it will create an address like this.
Then, copy this address first.
Then, click OK. If
we send data to the address we copied earlier, it
can retrieve the value.
Just like
when an email is sent from a mailbox, we can receive it and
open it. This
acts as a box that receives it.
Now, we have to be able to send an email.
In the sheet that we set, we have to set the function so that we can send an email. But, you
can't do that right away. You
have to install an add-on.
So, in the extension program,
click on Install add-on, and here, May 4
Google.  There is something called Sis.
Search for it, select it, and install it.
I already have it installed. After you
install it, go
to the extension program, Mapo Google Sheets, and go
to the settings value.
Go to the settings value, and there is a webp URL.
Here, the mailbox address,
our webp address, paste the webp address
like this and enter it.
And the sheet is now outbound.
You can enter the sheet name, and
then the range is
in which range you want to receive when the value changes.
So
if this is not specified, a trigger will be generated when any value is modified in this sheet.
But we
don't need to do that. We just need
to trigger when the column called Mail Check changes.
So for G2 ES,
for now, let's set the range to around g1000.
Set it like this and save it. Now the settings are
complete. When setting this, please
note that you must set this
in the Chrome browser to
set it properly. If you
do it in a browser other than Chrome, the settings may not be saved properly.  It
might not work, so I
recommend using Chrome.
After setting it like this,
let's test if it can be loaded properly here. So
run this.
Now the outer perimeter is ready to receive data. Then,
in this state, let's
change the G2 value.
Then, since the G2 value has
changed, you can see that the value is fetched like this. The
values have been fetched like this. Now,
we can send an email based on the fetched values.
Since there are all these contents here, let's link the email.
Select Gmail. You
can select Send Email. You can select Email.
Now, before sending here, I
want to add filtering. What filtering is,
when the value of the column changes, we
trigger it. But
change means the value
can be deleted or unchecked.
So, it's
not an action that checks the form that we want. This
cell can be modified in other ways.
In that case, we
shouldn't send an email. So,
let's filter it.
When filtering, use the module like this.
There is an extension shape between the modules.
If you click on this, you can set up a filter.
Here, I
will set the mail check true.
So, here, the value is set to low value.
When this checkbox is checked, you
can see that the value is brought as true. I will set it to
send an email only when the checkbox is checked.
But now,
to make it safer, I will
add one more end. I will add an additional
condition.
Even if the checkbox is checked, if this mail send column is
Yes, the
email has already been sent. I
will add one more condition to send an email only when the value in the send column is empty. So,
when the value of the h column is a null value, I will
set it to be
empty. If you go into the gear like this, the null value knows something.
So, hl mail send is a
column value that has not been sent yet,
and also, if the mail check is checked, I will
send the Gmail only when it is checked.
I set it like this. And
then  Now, the most important thing about Gmail settings is
sending emails.
Let's set up that option. Okay,
now you have to connect your email first. For
business emails,
there are emails that end with the company name instead of @gmail.com.
In that case, you can just add it and sign in to
use it right away.
However, for personal emails that
end with @gmail, you have to
get permission from Google.
So requesting permission and connecting
is a little more difficult.
So for now,
I will explain it additionally for those who need it last. For
now, let's assume that the connection is made and
proceed.
If you want to test it with a personal account, I recommend that you refer
to the part later where I explain how to connect Gmail. You
should be
familiar with it now.
The recipient who sends it like this is the one who
specified all the values in this sheet.
In this low value, a. Now, the email value.
You can set this. And in
the subject n low value, you
can see the subject in 2 columns. For the content, you
can enter the F value like this.
Click Advanced to see who is sending it.
Let's set whether it was sent or not. For now, I'll
put it in my email. Yes,
set it like this and save it. Let's
run it to see how the email is transferred.
Now, I've done the trigger, but
if you look, this is filtered, so the value is
not sent to the email module. Why is that?
The value is correct now, but
I unchecked the checkbox, "True Summer." When I unchecked it, the
information was received, but the filtering
did not pass, so the email was not transferred.
But if we set it again and check this again this time, it will pass this time. It
passed because it met the condition, and
now the email has been sent. The
content was transferred like this.
Let's check this in the email. It
will appear like this. But if you
look here, everything else is good, but the
spacing is not reflected at all. If the
email is sent like this, it will obviously
not look good. So we need to fix this now. The
enter key is
not reflected at all. We need to fix that now.
So if you
look at the content here, the value seems to be entered correctly, but
in this format.  It's not being printed right now. The
reason is because in the email, if you
look at the contents of the email, it
says that you can use HTML tags,
so you need to change the space to HTML format. The
method of changing it is not that difficult. Just
use the place and
change the space value to something else.
So for the replace,
first put in the main text and then
set the space value first. If you
look at the text here, there
is something called a new line. To be exact, a
space means a single space and a new line
means three lines, but this is
not displayed right now. So, if you
set this to BR /, which means a new line in the HTML tag, it
is a tag that leaves a single line in the HTML tag. If you replace it with this, the
email will actually be sent properly. Then, if you set it like this
first and update the
value of Yes in the mail send when you send an email in the sheet, it would
be good. Let's
link it up and then test it once.
When you send an email in the mail send column, it will be displayed as Yes.
When you set that, go back to the sheet.  Go in and
this time we need to update the data in the row.
So
select the Google Sheet module and
search for update. There
is an update row. Set this. Then
we
will search for the sheet we will update. Select it and
set the row number. There is
no row ID here, but there
is a row registry when receiving web pro. Row start is for
each row,
so select Row start.
Then, for the
content to be updated, set the value in Mail Send to
Yes. Just
enter the value Yes. Set it like this and
save it.
Then, from the beginning, let's test
getting data from a new row,
sending an email, and updating that the email sending is complete.
Now that we have
this set up, you just need to
schedule it.
Let's turn on scheduling. I
turned on scheduling. Next, we will first go to the daily writing scenario that
receives new data and writes an email draft.
Let's run it first here.
Of course, this
will run every 15 minutes with Watch News.  I can set it up,
but then I'll have to wait 15 minutes.
So, let's
write the email and execute it directly.
Since Web 6 is already scheduled, let's
check that it's sent out every day when we check it.
Let's actually add one more row here.
This time, I'll just make it number 2. I
've specified two like 1 and 2. I'll
delete all the subject and body and
receive it again. So, these
two are set now. In the practice, I'll check it from the beginning by going to Well to Start and executing it once. I've brought in two values like this. I
brought in 1 and 2. The
execution is already finished. If you look at the sheet,
you can see that I
wrote the subject and body for two channels. You can
see the daily draft and edit it here. I
modified the content like this.
If you edit it and want to actually send an email, we
created a process to receive the WebPro data in the second scenario and send the email now, so here,
now, email.  If you just click the check button, it will
send the email and then it
will say "Yes" here. Let's click this.
Oh, this is marked as "S".
That means the email has been sent. Let's
look for the email.
Okay, you
can see that the email has been properly pronounced. Since
we changed it to the html tag in the replay earlier, you
can see that the line spacing has been reflected well.
And if you click the second one, the
second email will also be sent.
Yes, the
email has been sent. As you can see, the second
email has also been sent. I created an automated process that
can send an email by creating a PT, modifying the initial status, and clicking the check button.
Lastly,
when I was setting up my email, I mentioned that setting up a personal email is
a little more difficult,
so I will
explain how to set up a personal email in addition.
If you are already good at it
or if you use a business email account, you
can skip this part. The
reason why you need to set up game email additionally is that
using this module is the same concept as being
able to use the API of that service.  As I
mentioned,
Google has blocked
API Make from automatically using personal emails for privacy reasons.
So we
need to manually configure this so that we can use it. So,
in order to do that, we need something additional.
So when you add it, you ca
n't just sign in. You need to
go to Earth Settings,
add a client ID and client secret,
sign in, and connect your account.
Then, you
need to receive an ID and secret number. To do that, you
need to go to the Google Cloud Console.
There is a link called Google Cloud Platform called Google Cloud Console.
Click on GCP and log in. Once you
log in,
if this is your first time using it, click the drop-down button above and
select New Project. Create a new project name. You
can think of it as creating a project folder. I
created something called Make Google Integration. After creating this,
first select the project I created.
Select it, and then
click the menu button on the left. There are various options.
Among them, there is something called API Service.
Here's what you need to do.
So what we want to do now is to
set up our personal Gmail API so that Make can use it.
So when you
go into the API, the first thing we need to do is
activate the API so that we can use the Gmail API. So
find Gmail, select Gmail API, and
activate this.
I'm a
manager now, but if you're not using it, there will
be a button like this called 'Navel'.
Click on it to activate it.
Activate this first.
Once it's activated, you need to set up specifically
what permissions you want to grant for this API.
So the section where you can do that is 'Con'.
Click on
this. Go into this and
create an app. You can create a new app.
Here, my
name is just Makeline.
You can set your own email for the user support email. You do
n't need anything else.
There's something called Torado. Add two things here:
ing.com and make.com. You
might be wondering what ingro med.com is. This is now
transferred to Make.  It's a brand name, but you need to
include this so that the settings
can be done properly. Just enter ing.com and
make.com
as authorize domains. For Deeper
Contact Information, you can also set your email. If you do this, you need to
add an S. If you do an
Ad S and
type 'mail' in the filter, all the
permissions related to email will appear. So,
I activated the API, but you can specify
which permissions to set within the API.
So, among the emails that appear, there
is one with 'S'. You
don't need one with 'On', so I'll exclude that and add
mail.google.com, modify,
compose, metadata, insert, send, and so on.
Now, I'll
add more. And you just need to add things like send,
label, setting, basic, sharing,
read only.
Basically, you
can add everything except 'on'.
Then, you can update.
Then, you've set it so that Make can do all the tasks that can be done via email.
Then, you can save and continue.
Now, the settings are done.
Next, the settings.  If you did, I needed an
ID and key that I could use earlier.
Now, you need to add them.
So,
come into the section called "s" and click "create
crential." Then, we
set the OS. Click "os cli." Then, set the
application type to "web application." You can set the
name to anything.
Then, here, you
need to set the URI.
This is where we will be able to use it. Click "
authorize
redirect uis." And here, add "
www w."  ing.com / O /
CB / gooogle You can
add restricted yogurt. It's
better to paste https. Then, you can
create it.
If you create it, a client ID and client
seek are created. You can copy and paste it as is.
Paste it here and press
sign-in to connect.
Now, you can connect your personal account.
At this time, you need to be careful. For
example, a personal Gmail account
needs to be approved every 7 days.
So, if we automate work and have to
re-apply every 7 days, it's very
inconvenient. So, in fact, personal accounts are
not really suitable for daily automation. Of course, if you
look here, you can see that the public app needs to be approved every 7 days. If you
change the status to production, it says that you don't need to do that.
So, if you go
to the OS consensus screen in the Google Cloud Console and change the
app from testing
to production, you
can change it.
I changed it now and it
says back to testing, but
if it was originally in testing status, this  You can choose to publish in production. If you
choose, it won't be published right away. It'll ask you to
verify. If you just press the publish button like this and use it, you don't have to do it on a weekly basis. Make provides guidance in the explanation here. However, what they're saying here
is that we can't guarantee that this will continue because we don't know how Google will handle it. So, it would be good to keep in mind that personal
accounts are
a bit unstable even if you press the publish button.
If this gets blocked, you can update it for each thread or
use a business account.
We've
learned how to link personal emails. Today, we'll look at the
basic concepts of an automation tool called May and build a system that
automates the process of sending outbound emails. If
you're not familiar with coding and want to
automate work by learning Python from the beginning, it's
difficult and complicated, so it's
easy to give up in the middle. If you
want to increase work productivity right away without coding,
I recommend that you use Make. If you use Make, you
can automate a variety of tasks even without specialized knowledge related to coding or APIs. In particular, what I
showed you today  If you have a work process that needs to be done periodically, such as writing emails or, even if it is
not writing emails, creating content or
writing reports or contracts, you
can save a lot of time by automating it using Make. And if you
invest the time saved in more important core tasks, you
can greatly increase your work productivity. Before Make,
the cost is determined by adding up the operation values that are printed on the module that I showed you.
Since you can use up to 1,000 operations per month for free, you can easily use one or two automations for free. If you
have other work automation ideas while using it, you can consider the paid version.
So, I think it would be good if you
practice without any cost burden and
feel the improvement in productivity.
Then, I will come back with
tips on building a system that can increase productivity. If
you are interested, please subscribe and like and
set notifications. This
was Citizen Developer.
[Music]